table_name	descriptiontaxon	"Identifying information about a taxon (e.g. name, authority ID, and authority system)."observation	"Core table holding the observations being analyzed (e.g. organism abundance, density, etc.). Observations are linked to a taxon and to a location. Linking to ancillary observations (via event_id) is optional, and event_id is required to be populated only if the observation_ancillary table is created."location_ancillary	"Additional information about a place that does not change frequently, e.g., lake area or depth, experimental treatment. Features that change frequently are probably more closely related to the observational event, and so should be kept in the ""observation_ancillary"" table. Ancillary observations are linked through the location_id, and one location_id may have many ancillary observations about it."taxon_ancillary	"Additional info about an organism that does not change frequently, e.g., trophic level. Features that change frequently are probably observations. Ancillary observations are linked through the taxon_id, and one taxon_id may have many ancillary observations about it."observation_ancillary	"Ancillary information about an observational event for context, but that are not about the organism or sampling location. Examples: water depth, height of a tower, temperature of medium. These are very often ""environmental driver"" data in analyses. This table can hold a variety of measurements, and the relationship to the observation table is ""many-to-many"", that is, there may be many core observation and many ancillary observations collected during the same event (unlike the relationships in the other two ancillary-table pairs, which are one-to-many). For this reason, the relationship linking the event_id in the two tables is depicted graphically with a dotted line see ecocomDP.png). Recommendations for handling or joining observation and observation_ancillary can be found in the instructions."dataset_summary	Summary info about the dataset. Information could be elevated to metadata to enhance discovery.variable_mapping	"Information linking a variable_name used in a data table to an external definition. This optional table holds mappings (or relations) between variable names in the data tables and measurement definitions external to the data package. This table has multiple uses: (1) provides definitions for variables in the datasets (more extensive than might be found in metadata), (2) code can use this table to to create EML code-definition pairs or annotations in metadata, (3) a single column in a data table may have mappings to multiple dictionaries, by including multiple rows for it"location	"Identifying information about a place (lonitude, latitude, elevation). The table is self-referencing so that sites can be nested. The example is for a transect, with a reference to another parent-row."